---
layout: post
title: ATX Stabbing
---

The night before today, I tried to fall asleep with a vicious set of thoughts
occupying my mind. I couldn't tell if I was sad or happy. I was reciting the
weekly or monthly mantra, which was a spontaneous list of names. I talked to
myself and gave thanks to those that I feel I love. My mother appears on that
list often, because she is number one. We simply have gone through too much
together. She was the only one who stayed with me for my entire life. I thought
I was going to write today's entry with a cool mind, but I get emotional
thinking about it. Sometimes, it's just her name on the list, and I visualize
her motherliness over and over again. She's stayed with me for my entire life. I
can't say the same of my brother or father or step father or anyone else on this
earth, except for myself. My step father, Mark, is a great man, and I look up to
him, I respect him, and I would make the weekends priceless times when I would
come help out on the farm if needed help. And I want to say that I am still
learning how to love him. My brother, Stone, is a man who has been through a
lot. He went through a childhood with me, a sometimes bullied child who
sometimes bullied others, including him. After some years when I matured a
little bit and began to regret my bullying, I learned that others bullied him. I
would've smashed those people on sight.

This is starting to turn into a rant, but I still seem to have the sense to add
paragraphs. I don't like to rank people in terms of how much I love them, but my
mother is first, and I come in the top ten, at least. I love some parts of
myself, and I hate some parts of myself. So, I try to improve however I can.

But the relative point from last night was the thought about the listed ones
dying. The common phrase to say here is that _I can't imagine a life without
them_, but the truth is that I have that abstract capability. So, I did. I
imagined a life without them, and I recycled the depression. I'm a green man,
since my mother loves the environment and taught me how to as well, but I
condemn this kind of recycling. It is done much too often by too many people. It
may just be human nature.

Anyways, back to death. Last night, I cared, even when no one died. Ironically,
only in my imagination. Today, a slasher shanked a few students on the
University of Texas, Austin campus. One man died and a few others were injured.
I could've cared less. After I got the news, I thought about it. I thought about
how much I tried to care for Haruka, a girl murdered around a year back. But I
thought about it today and felt it was an act. I look like a heartless human
being here. Say what you will. I'm thinking like this because I struggle with
the question _How can we love/care about someone we don't even know?_ I can't.
To me, Haruka was a beautiful girl in a few pictures, and the guy who died, I
don't even know his name with certainty. I think I heard Kendrix? He is not even
a faded image in my brain. I'm a visual guy, so I won't remember him. But I did
feel empathy towards to the families of the deceased. I don't know them at all,
but I know how bad I felt when I was imaging a life without my mother. I care
much more about the relation between the dead and their family then I care about
the actual person who died. I'm a pure mathematics major since abstract things
like relationships dominate my interest and emotional bankâ¸® (I will use things
backwards question mark to indicate irony and other _read between the lines_
things).

I saw my fuse for the entire day after I heard about the stabbings and death.
_The first person I hear talk about feeling sad about the guy's death. I'm going
to explode on them_ was my mentality. It's a strange state of prepared.
