---
layout: post
title: Meditation PR (45 mins), etc.
categories: meditation, tukong, thoughts
---

At 10 am today, I set a new personal record for the longest I've meditated. I have a timer on my
phone for 20 minutes, which I use to meditate for a fixed amount of time. I get kind of worried
about meditating for too long and missing activities I had planned for the day.

When I meditate, I sit down anywhere. The seat could be the bed, a chair, the ground. I find sitting
on the bed the most comfortable. If the surface is too hard, my legs fall asleep (although master
meditators let their limbs fall asleep and continue meditating anyways). I put my right hand on top
of my left hand. The position is called the _dhyana mudra_. I try to focus on my breath and a point
in the static darkness created by my eyelids. I breathe in through the nose and like to breathe out
through the mouth, audibly. I like to hear the passing of the wind. It helps me focus a little more.
Whenever my mind starts to wander, that is, I start to think about something, I label the thought. I
do this by thinking the word "thinking", and then stop thinking about that thought.

So, I did this for a while. Eventually, I started to thinking that it's been more than 20 minutes.
In the past, I've had the same thought, and I stopped meditating to check my phone. I would only
have one or two minutes left of meditation. This time, I decided against looking at my phone. I went
on and on. Eventually, I felt something I hadn't felt in any previous session. It was a strange
mental clarity when I focused intently on a point. I don't really know how to describe it, but it
only lasted for a few seconds. I decided to check the my alarm because I really believed that I had
meditated for more than 20 minutes. The timer showed -25 minutes, which means I meditated for 45! I
accidentally put the phone to silent, so there were no sound or vibration.

__Tukong__

I practiced some sweeping today. Master Ali watched over us like a hawk. Without glancing at him
frequently, I knew because he would come over, tell us what we are doing wrong and what we can
improve on. During one demonstration, he gestured for me to be the _throwing bag_. One of the
mistakes we made was sweeping and letting the victim fall too close to our knee joint. It's possible
to dislocate the knee this way. He said that he saw this in other styles, not ours. I let out a
fast, little sign. I understood what Master Ali was saying. He didn't want us to think that our
style would be okay with letting such injuries happen when they could be easily avoided. But in the
moment, I had a fear that he misinterpreted me in the wrong way, where I was scoffing at his remark.
Anyways, these thoughts are pointless.

__Nihilism__

Changing topics now.
I've been thinking about the meaningless of everything. The universe is inherently pointless. I
think philosophers like to call it nihilism. I've heard people say that although it is a depressing
thought, it is actually very uplifting. The main idea is that you get to create the meaning to your
life. This is as liberating as it gets.

I read some Reddit comment a while back. I'm paraphrasing here:

> The next logical leap is to ask what nihilism says about nihilism.

I want to talk about this. Nihilism suggests that everything is pointless, including nihilism. Even
the positing that every is absurd is absurd. This leads me to think that nihilists shouldn't take
things too seriously.

I'm also interested in Bhuddism (not as much the religious parts, but still so) and its relation to
nihilism. I can't put my finger on it, but they seem very connected. The concept of the ego being an
illusion kind of makes me think that many of my previous actions have been meaningless. Whenever I
boast, pointless. Whenever I get embarrased for making a mistake, meaningless. _Muda muda muda._
This kind of sounds like _mudra_. It is only one Hamming distance away. Getting back on track, I
will eventually analyze Bhuddism in the context of nihilism and vice versa.

I also want to compare and contrast Western and East Asian narratives. I _really_ want to think
about this, since I think it is a fascinating reflection of the values in the respective cultures.
I'll save these things for another entry.
