---
layout: post
title: Cold Mind, Warm Body
categories: tukong
---

We the did same kicking drill as last Thursday. I partnered with Paul again, and
this time, we took no breaks between sets of ten, until Master Ali told us to
stop. After going through the roundhouse and hook kicks, Master Ali stopped us.
He said that when we do something one more time, we have to execute it one more
time. Even when we were tired, we needed to exert all the effort we had left.
When our legs could only kick to thigh height due to fatigue, our mind should
still target the head.

I felt a little bit guilty because I was not that tired. I was breathing hard,
and my heart hurt, but my legs weren't that tired. Thankfully, we got to do two
more variations.

We did the same drill, except with consecutive kicks. The first was a roundhouse
into a hook kick with the same foot without touching the ground. The second was
two roundhouses, one low, one high. Master Ali motivated me to make an even
tougher effort this time.

I felt frustrated because I wanted to go all out, but my technique was not
there. My balance was off, and I couldn't go as hard as I wanted.

Then, we moved onto self defense. Master Alex worked with us on One Step
Sparring. I learned all ten of them. What I need to work on is observing my
partner. When he attacks by punching in long stance, I need to react faster. But
that should come with more practice and knowing the ten sets by heart.

Lastly, we did some more self defense. Someone grabs you by the collar with both
hands. It's a kind of tough guy act. Your first reaction may be to get those
hands off of you. But now, your opponent cannot use those hands to attack if he
is grabbing. So, you say thank you for the handicap, injure his groin, grab his
head and throw him onto the ground.

Here's the technique. One hand reaches behind the head and a finger goes inside
the ear canal for grip. The other hand goes on the remote side of the chin.
Twist the head, bring it down at a 45 degree angle, and the body should follow.
