---
layout: post
title: Stretch
categories: tukong climbing weightlifting
---

Picking up a new _good_ habit. It isn't a hard thing to do with the right motivation. I happened to
have two sources. I often ask myself, _how many different sources of motivation does one need_? It
is quite a vague question. Need to do what? Start something? I want to focus on continuing
something, because that is what a habit is - something you continue to do.

It's been a year or two years since Jonas first asked me to try out Tukong Moosul. Going to Tukong
Moosul training on Tuesday and Thursday nights is a habit. The first couple of times I went, I felt
uncomfortable. Master Ali would ask for me to _kiyap_, which is the short yell you hear when martial
artists strike. Master Ali sometimes refers to Bruce Lee, the man of a thousand _kiyaps_, most of
which are rather high pitched. But like fingerprints, everybody's _kiyaps_ sound different. I
digress.

The main point is that it was hard to start. But after a few months, I felt more comfortable,
although I did feel some anxiety before going. Before going to training, I felt irrationally anxious
because I knew that if I did go, I would be enjoy it. I recently read this article through reddit
about relationships between people with highly different sex drives. One commenter wanted to remind
the low libido half of the é¶¼ that they enjoy having sex with their partner once they start doing
it, and that should fill their minds rather than their current apathetic feelings.

It's been half a year or so since Brian asked me to go bouldering with him. This was not a tough
habit of getting into because it was fun.

For both activities, I want to be good. I want to be a better martial artist. I want to be a better
climber. How did I come to want these goals? Useless question. I just do. I like doing things more
than talking. It's not that I dislike words, but I don't prefer them. I use them a lot though, and
they are very useful. I digress.

Those were my initial motivators for having a stretching routine. For Tukong, even though a high
roundhouse kick or side kick may not be practical, I won't let that be my excuse for not having
flexible legs. For bouldering, I saw this video featuring Akiyo Noguchi, an excellent rock climber,
who basically did the splits in order to reach for a foot hold. It seems that if I'm flexible, I'll
be better at both.

My stretching routine right now is just for my hamstrings, since that is probably my tightest muscle
group (from sitting around all day for the majority of my post elementary school life). I looked on
YouTube, and watched a ton of Tom Merrick, a mobile and strong individual. He said to keep the
routine very simple at the start, so I'm doing that. I started May 15, 2018, and haven't missed a
day (though on some days, I did half ass some stretches because I really didn't feel like it).

Once the habit got in my system, it got easier to initiate and harder to procrastinate. Along the
way, with my two initial sources of motivation, I've gained a few more. I want to be able to pike
and do the splits. I've gotten small injuries from weightlifting, squats specifically, and I think
that tight hamstrings were messing with my form under maximal loads.
