---
layout: post
title: Pain
categories: tukong
---

## Training

Today was the first day that I felt that I didn't want to be at Tukong. It
wasn't an intense feeling. It was just a thought that crept back a few times. I
shoved it away quickly, but it left me unsettled until the end of class that
night.

The reason was me. Master Ali showed us a throwing move. I was the defender. Ron
was the attacker. As Ron did a power roundhouse kick, I stepped in toe to toe,
so that we were three fists away. My left arm wrapped around this kicking leg,
elbow below inner thigh. My right arm grabbed onto his lapel. My right leg came
in front of his, and I swept back, picking him off the ground.

My mistake. I lost focus and control. I was supposed to ease him onto the ground
slowly, but my right hand relaxed. I dropped Ron. For the first few seconds, I
thought nothing of it because I couldn't see how he landed. But Brad came over
and asked him if he was okay. Ron responded that he felt a little dizzy but was
otherwise alright. Brad brought him over to the wall. I felt bad. The physical
pain didn't matter and rarely does to me. It's the emotional/psychological pain
of hurting someone as gentle as Ron.

I was next to get thrown. Ron was my partner for the drill, but Paul signaled
for me to stay. He threw me and let me down like I was a baby. _You gotta learn
how to lower them down_. That's what gave me the feeling I had in the first
paragraph. I knew my mistake. I heard it and felt even worse.

The day was already bad enough before Tukong.

I don't want to say this, but I have to. I was a little irritated at Paul. But I
quickly realized that the irritation was for myself.

## Fears

What do I fear after those events? My biggest fear is that Ron will think that I
did it on purpose. I was the first to be thrown, and Ron threw me roughly as
well. He apologized for it and I sincerely forgave him. _No problem, sir_.

I swear that what I did was not out of malice. It was an honest mistake. I had
no ill intent.

I kind of fear hurting others. I have almost graduated from fear of hurting
myself. I'm working on that. My last post mentioned my lack of confidence in
myself. I think that a lack of confidence and the fear of hurting others are the
same thing in this sense. If I had confidence in my control and ability to
focus, I wouldn't be afraid to execute techniques on others and not hurt them.

A final fear is that I will quit Tukong earlier than I want. I won't but it
reminded me of my high school days in marching band. During my junior year of
high school, I didn't like it anymore. I had to force myself to march and go to
football games and perform. I really wanted to quit. But my senior year, I loved
it again. I don't get how the flow of these things work.

## Consequences

I used to think of things in unrelated punishments. Like how if I failed to do a
hundred inclined sit ups, I would join the Marines as punishment for failure. I
still think like that sometimes, but they are now usually _related, extended
challenges_.

For this one, my challenge is to improve my focus. Before I start any task, I
will say that I will focus. If I lose focus at any point, I will do an
additional repetition to all my movements on my morning routine (e.g. all
kicks), and an additional minute to meditation. On my second err, I will add
two. For the general case of _n_ losses of focus, I will add _n(n+1)/2_
repetitions/minutes.
