---
layout: post
title: Snap
categories: tukong 
---

We went through round house, turn around kicks, both sides on paddle targets. I
focused on pivoting on the ball of my grounded foot and aiming. I feared hitting
the target, but I reminded myself. _I should trust myself. I should trust in my
body's resilience._

I got to go twice before Master Ali moved on to a new drill. He had each holder
wear the vest of a sparring suit. We did a combination kick: power round house
into sliding round house. We tried for two hits to the solar plexus. He reminded
us that the harder I kicked, the harder the others would kick when it was my
turn to hold/wear. I kicked decently hard. When I held, I felt Ron's and Alex's
kicks.

In the middle, Master Ali stopped us and told us that our combination kicks were
slow. They should be fast, otherwise we might as well be practicing two separate
kicks. I focused on flow.

Sticking with the vest, we did three more combination kick drills. We did speed
round house into a jump speed roundhouse with the other leg. We did a similar
drill with power round house. Lastly, we did the previous drill except twice,
non-stop.

After stripping the vests, I learned roughly the first half of Basic Form 3 from
Lynn.

After some repetitions, Master Ali stopped us and held a wooden board. Brad also
held a board. Brad's free hand formed a knife-hand, chambered three feet away
from the board, and slammed into the board. It broke in two.

Then, Master Ali held up his board. With his free hand, he also formed a
knife-hand, but he chambered it only three inches from the board. The motion was
basically palm down to palm up and looked like a blur. It broke in two.

"See the difference?", he asked. He told us to find how the movements in our
forms generated power. In a middle punch, we move the fist out, but near full
extension, we rotate the fist and snap. Sometimes it's a big motion, but
sometimes, it's in the snap.
