---
layout: post
title: Back at it
categories: climbing
---

The pre-climb meal was big. A full head of oven roasted broccoli, four slices of
whole wheat bread, two eggs and some salsa. I downed it with a cup of milk.
Exactly one cup of milk. I drank out of a measuring cup.

Before Brian came to pick me up and drive me to ABP, I wanted to focus on my
breath. From Tukong, Jonas said I restricted my breathing on a good portion of
techniques. I've started to notice more and more that my breathing does suck.
Now that I know the problem, I can fix it.

So, I've been focusing on the breath. A few hours before, I had class. A few
hours before class, I sat on a wooden chair in the living room and focused on
the breath. My goal was to never lose focus of my breathe until class ended.
Sometimes, I lose focus after a really fast blink. Other times it's when I bump
into someone. I don't think I reached my goal, but for the great majority of the
time, I focused on my breath.

I read an article on fear in climbing, which I'll get to later, and the author
called it _centering_. It's not too bad to do with everyday activities, but it
is much harder to do while climbing.

Today was a testing day. Previously, my ulnar nerve gave me problems. I thought
the cause was some sort of entrapment of the nerve between muscles and bones. I
went to ABP's actual gym with weights and stretched. It helped a bit during
climbing. I didn't feel the immense pain I usually did. Also, I focused on
keeping an upright posture. Good posture apparently is the long term solution to
the ulnar nerve problem.

So, I'm still learning how to climb. But the more I've climbed, the more I
realized that in the grand scheme of things, I wanted to get good at climbing, I
wanted to have fun, I wanted to climb _pain_ free, and I wanted to build a trust
in myself.

The last part is important because I feel like I get scared a lot and panic on
some move. One example is this purple route on a short boulder at the far side
of the entrance. I did it, but I didn't feel like I did it calmly throughout.
Near the end, I got scared. The physical reaction was that I laid prone on the
wall, with my entire body touching, when all I needed was to push off a foot
hold with my foot and grab for the top.

The article I read mentioned visualization, which I completely forgot about. I
also completely forgot about applying centering to nearly every challenging
route I did, but that's besides the point. I need to actively see in my mind's
eye, my doing the move from a first person perspective. I need to predict how it
would feel.
