---
layout: post
title: Brother left
---

__Honesty__

My brother crashed at my place for two to three months to finish an internship
in Austin. Today, he left. On the way back home, from the airport, I could feel
what every writer describes as the precursor to crying. Part of it is the throat
swelling. Part of it is the eye closing.

I want to understand myself more, so I tried my best to be honest. I didn't
try to put on a tough act. Well, during the drive back home I did because I
wanted to see the road clearly. I am a safe driver. So, this is part of what I
mean by putting on a tough act. I make jokes to myself and talk out loud about
other things. It helps if you don't want to cry. When I was younger, and when
the ego was bigger, I thought crying wasn't a cool thing to do, so I didn't do
it. But now, after graduating college, I don't care that much about what is
*cool* anymore. I do a little bit, but not as much.

I haven't cried in a while, so it was a good time. One thing that caught me by
surprise was how much it didn't impede my body, head downwards. I started doing
chores, like laundry and cleaning tabletops, when I started crying. My body kept
on doing chores, and it didn't feel as physically painful as I remembered. I
walked around easily and didn't feel like I wanted to drop and lie down.

An important thing I learned is that my brother is more important to me than I
previously realized.

__Society__

Although I am slightly more mature, I still feel embarrassed when I cry. It's
probably a normal feeling, and I expect to feel less embarrassed as I age.

I am not a perfect Buddhist monk, and I'm not trying to become one. I just like
some aspects of their life style and want to incorporate them into my own.
People tell me, and I know myself that I am not the kind of person who shows a
lot of emotion on the outside. *Things happen*. That's what I usually think when
surprising events occur. I have a great poker face apparently. Despite all that,
I still have feelings. I think that I feel the same amount that the average
person would feel.

__Why the poker face?__

One thing I wonder about is the importance of letting other people know exactly
how you feel. Someone can argue that I should let other people know. I agree. I
don't say I love people, and my face certainly doesn't show I love people.
However, I hope the actions I take can show people that I do love them. I'm not
a great writer because I don't write a lot, but **show, don't tell**. Showing
generates the bigger impact.

Recently, I read a manga called *Machida-kun no Sekai* which translates to
something like *Machida's World*. The protagonist is not skilled at anything,
but he loves people. All people. When he was younger, he asked why isn't
everyone family? I really like that mindset, even if it may have been
idealistic. I honestly don't know the answer to the question, but I think I've
gained some insight. I too want to love all people, just like how people love
dogs today (but still show the respect people deserve and not treat them like
dogs).
